# ZM_J_Code_Metrics

The Java version of ZM_Source_Code_Metrics. In this version, we leverage an intermediate XML representation of the source code obtained by applying srcML. This approach improves code parsing and processing speed.

## 1) Metrics that can be calculated in the current version (1.06.06.2020)

### 1.1) LOC:

* Total number of lines (physical lines)
* Lines of comments
* Blank lines

### 1.2) McCab Metrics:

* McCab Number (cyclomatic complexity)

### 1.3) Halstead complexity metrics:

* n1: Number of distinct operators
* n2: Number of distinct operands
* N1: Total number of operators
* N2: Total number of operands
* n: Program vocabulary
* N: Program length
* N': Calculated program length
* V: Volume
* D: Difficulty
* E: Effort
* T: Time Required To Program
* B1: Number of delivered bugs
* B2: Number of delivered bugs

## 2) Supported languages

The metrics are calculated based on the XML representation generated by the srcML tool. Therefore, theoretically, all languages supported by srcML can be supported by ZM_J_Code_Metrics. The current version works very well with C/C++. Minor changes can be made to support other languages supported by srcML.

Please note that to calculate metrics, ZM Code Metrics needs some information about the language, such as the list of keywords, control commands, etc. This information is stored in a configuration file (Languages_Settings.properties). When adding support for a new language, this must be taken into account (this might be the only major modification required).

## 3) Requirements

The only requirement is srcML. To use this tool, you must install srcML and update the file `App_Settings.properties` by adding the full path to srcML.

## 4) Funding request

I am seeking funding to improve the project in the following areas:

* Adding support for other languages
* Implementing additional code metrics
* Enhancing tool performance

## Funding is for:

* My own time (development and research)
* Upgrading GitHub account
* Web hosting
